---
layout: post
title:  "Partida e Partido"
date:   2021-05-10
categories: github blog sports
---


The La Liga is one of the most competitive leagues on Earth, and the absolute pinnacle of these league are two behemoth clubs, FC Barcelona and Real Madrid CF. Boasting millions of die-hard fans, numerous Champions League titles, and a roster of legendary players, it is safe to say that upsetting this duopoly is not an easy task. More often than not, it is one of these teams that wins the title. However, over the past 10 years there has emerged a new club in the fray. Lead by the firm, determined and fierce manager Diego 'El Cholo' Simeone, this team, Atletico de Madrid have been able to break this duopoly on two different occasions, the most recent instance coming a few days ago, on the 22nd of May, 2021.

Football is an unforgiving sport. Form is fickle, and every match is crucial to win the title. However, the COVID-19 pandemic definitely made things much harder. There wasn't a proper season break. Players were not match fit on multiple instances due to lack of gym time and of course, the sceptre of COVID-19 loomed over at all times. In spite of these odds, 'El Cholo', as he is fondly called by his diehard fans remained undaunted in these tough situations and never gave up.

The season started off well, with only two draw's and a loss that quicly accelerated the club to 50 points within the first half of the season. Simeone, well known for his rigid, and defence oriented team, had become a tad expansive, with his players rotating between a 5-3-2 and a 3-5-2. The strategy payed off. The attack, boistered by the explosive Uruguayan forward, Luis Suarez, who had just been left off by FC Barcelone for being "too old, and deemed unnecessary", was going on full speed. Marcos Llorente, who was the breakout star performer since the night at Anfield hit the ground running in the new season, had formed a deadly partnership with the Englishman Kieran Trippier. In the midfield, the captain Koke was dependable as ever pulling the strings of his side and leading from the front. The Golden Boy Joao Felix had also started putting in better performances, scoring in his first match of the season and contributing with his creative vision and playmaking. Thomas Lemar, who had a rather subpar first season, started having better shows and was able to gain in confidence. Defence was always Atletico's strong point, and the duo of Giminez and Savic were as strong as ever. Behind them, the almost impenetrable Jan Oblak stood firm and guarded the sticks with his life.

Things were crusing until the English FA pulled up Kieran Trippier with a 10 week ban, for indulging in betting. This came as an absolute shock to the team, and the replacement right back, Sime Vrjsalko was nowhere near the level of Trippier. This lead to a shuffling of personnel, with Marcos Llorente filling in at right back. Llorente, dependable as ever did the task well, but this stifled his attacking output greatly. This coincided with a few tough matches. We had started conceding goals and it was up to the skill of Suarez that we were able to win some of these matches, albeit narrowly.

At around the same time, we had our UCL matches, and this ended in further stretching the squad. Add in a bout of COVID to Suarez and a few in the Uruguayan and Portuguese national team, and this stretched our personnel even further. We got eliminated from Europe, by a rejuvenated Thomas Tuchel and his Chelsea side, who totally outclassed the team. We had a couple of back to back tight fixtures against Levante and this put our morale at a low.

We had ended the first half witha 10 point lead, with a game in hand. A few bad results and some good play by Real Madrid and Barcelona meant that they were now snapping at our heels with now a 5 point lead to protect. The margin for error had become minimal. Adding to the matters were injuries to Lemar and Felix, two of the sparks of the team. The team started conceding late goals and missing sitters. The lead was down to barely 3 points. One more loss and it was all over.

Luckily for the 'El Pupas', other teams faltered too. Barcelona fell against a Granada side, and Real Madrid drew against Sevilla. This narrowed the lead to just 2 points and two games left. Atletico had to win these two games at any cost. One misstep, and it would all be over.

In the penultimate match, against Osasuna, the team started off well, but were unable to find the net due to bad finishing or the woodwork or the keeper. In the attempt to charge forwards, the defence was left short changed and Atleti's title thread hung by a thread. A couple of substitutions 'El Cholo' made earlier paid off as Joao Felix found Renan Lodi with a perfectly weighted ball, who was able to shoot into the back with ease. In the dying moments of the game, Suarez showed everyone the stuff he's made of and was able to finally hit the back of the net after connecting with Yannick Carrasco's pinpoint pass. It was a remontada, and the players celebrated as if they'd won the title.
It was now in the final stretch. There was still 2 points separating Real and Atleti. It was now or never. In the last match it was evident that the team was nervous and jittery. Plenty of passing mistakes happened and a goal was conceded. However, the team never lost it's resolve and Correa and Suarez found the back of the net to win the match and the league for Atletico.

Being able to win the title, inspite of all the doubt thrown upon them and in the face of so many obstacles, Simeone is the embodiment of the Atletico de Madrid philosophy; to win and keep winning inspite of what's thrown at your face. Simeone has a young and talented squad at his command. With the giants Real Madrid and Barcelona entering a rebuilding phase, it may be a little too early to predict a successful future for Simeone's boys. But as Simeone likes to take it, __Partida e Partido__ . One at a time.